I, Moiraine Sedai,
do swear to honor and obey
Siuan Sanche.
[screams]
[Verin] When a woman is cut off
from the One Power, her body
no longer feels like her own.
I haven't given you any reason
to trust me.
Let me give you the gift
of a dream.
- [Rand] Egwene? Where is she?
- [Lanfear] Ishamael has her.
[Renna] Nothing exists outside
this cell for you, Egwene.
[Ryma] If you want
to rescue your friend,
we have to work out
how to open this.
It needs to be put on a woman.
It can't be broken.
[Aviendha] My name is Aviendha.
We need to go now.
Perrin Aybara,
do you like to dance?
Ji'e'toh is the Aiel Way.
You saved my life,
so where will we go now?
- Falme.
- Mat?
Ishamael, he has Egwene
- in Falme.
- So we go.
Mat, you kill Rand. I saw it.
[Lan] I'm sorry,
I can't let you leave.
[Anvaere] The Amyrlin Seat
is here in Cairhien.
She's demanded
an audience with you.
- [crowd cheering]
- [bells ringing]
[Siuan] Do you really think
they'll like me?
[Moiraine] I'm more worried
about you liking them.
- Really?
- My father's
brilliant and kind.
But he's absent-minded
and he's a bit vague.
And my sister, too,
she can be really...
We don't have to go to Cairhien
if you don't want to.
It's just that I haven't seen
them since before the war,
- and now that it's over...
- No, no, no, no.
It's not that, it's not that.
What is it, then?
It's just...
with the war,
it's been so hard
to think about any future
beyond these walls.
And when I think about us,
where we'll end up,
it's not in this Tower,
with these gowns and the ring.
Well, where is it, then?
It's...
in a bamboo hut
on the river,
like my father and I had.
And I'll be your fishwife?
Uh, you'd make
a bloody awful fishwife.
- [laughs]
- Have you ever
cast a net, Lady Damodred?
I might have.
But we're not gonna
be here forever.
We're gonna serve out our time
and then advise
the Daughter-Heir of Andor
or the king of Altara
and then we'll...
and then we'll retire.
Do you mean that?
Yes.
But you'll be my fishwife.
[laughs]
♪ ♪
[knocking]
[doors open]
[Moiraine] Gitara Sedai,
we bring news from the Amyrlin.
The war is over.
The Aiel are retreating.
[shouting]
[grunting]
- Oh!
- What is it? What's happening?
[gasping]
- [grunts]
- [exhales]
Are you seeing something?
The Dragon.
The Dragon is born again.
[grunts]
I feel it. [groans]
[pants, screams]
A foretelling?
[Gitara] It's happening now.
The baby lies in the snow.
And cries like the thunder.
It burns like the sun.
[crying]
Tell no one, my sisters.
You must find the Dragon Reborn.
And prepare the world
to follow...
[gasping]
[Siuan] Gitara?
[breathes shakily]
♪ ♪
[exhales]
[Moiraine] Mother.
Leave us, Daughter.
She's no threat to me.
I'll be right outside, Mother.
[door closes]
[Siuan] Why didn't you tell me?
Why didn't you tell me
you'd been stilled?
Six months of letters, Moiraine.
And not one word about this...
...this violation.
Well, what else
did Lan tell you?
That you threatened
to let Alanna take his bond
without his permission.
You know he told her.
That you found the Dragon.
Why are you here, Siuan?
I've let you carry this burden
for 20 years, love.
You've given everything for it.
From here on out,
- I row beside you.
- [scoffs]
It's time I met Rand al'Thor.
- Tuck in your shirt.
- What does the Amyrlin Seat
want from me?
Is this a trial?
I saw what she did to the last
man who called himself Dragon.
Is that why you ran
from the Eye of the World?
Why you hid here?
I left to protect
the people I love.
Don't be so selfish.
You were born
to protect this world.
Every person in it.
Not just the ones you love.
Listen to me.
The Amyrlin's a smart woman.
She's a good woman.
And she comes from humbler
beginnings than you.
Does Moiraine know
you're doing this?
There's one rule above all
others for being a man.
Whatever comes,
you face it on your feet.
Put this on.
Give me your blade.
Heron Dips the Wing.
You've been learning
sword forms.
I've learned a couple of things.
Keep the sword.
If the Amyrlin's afraid of you,
it won't be for a sword.
If you're going to use
one of the forms,
use Cat Crosses the Courtyard,
keep your back straight,
every muscle loose.
As if hung from a wire
at the top of your head.
Go.
The Amyrlin waits.
♪ ♪
[door opens]
[door closes]
As you've summoned me,
Mother, so I've come.
I stand ready.
Do you now, boy?
Lan has prepared you, I see.
What else did he tell you?
That you aren't
exactly what you seem.
Most people are not.
In this world, it is wise
to guard your truths,
but not us.
Not today.
I have questions for you.
Answer truthfully.
And then what?
[bell ringing]
- [indistinct chatter]
- [children clamoring]
[grunts]
♪ ♪
[Lanfear] Welcome to Falme.
[groans]
[groaning softly]
Who are you? What...
How did I get here?
That's my little secret.
I'm sorry, who in the name
of Light are you?
I won't lie,
I expected you to be more...
impressive.
Still, I love
to be owed a favor.
Is this a dream?
Oh, no, you're very much awake.
[grunting]
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter]
The way these Falmen behave,
you'd think they've been
Seanchan all their lives,
not that their city was taken
just a few months back.
Why didn't they fight back?
[Nynaeve] How?
- [soldier] Move out!
- [soldier 2] Come on!
[Nynaeve] Against that?
Come on.
Those soldiers will be heading
to the palace.
- We'll go straight there,
find Egwene.
- No.
We tried your way.
You said there was
an Ogier traveling
with your friend Perrin,
correct?
This time you listen to me
and do exactly as I say.
[Mulaen] Being awarded a damane
is both a recognition
of your contributions
and an investment in your future
within our empire.
You should all be very proud.
Few women are capable
of wearing the bracelet.
Fewer still of creating
a true link with their damane.
Have any of you experienced
defiance from your damane?
It is common.
Today, you will test
your damane's strength.
Understand the raw power
available to her
so you can work out
how to use it.
Let's begin.
[Renna] We will work together.
But if you embarrass me today,
you will regret it.
[panting softly]
[Yasicca] Ah, Verin.
Cairhien's Royal Library
is just gorgeous.
- [chuckles]
- You can't imagine
the array of books they have.
Go on, then.
What's the big secret?
Why do you need
an Ogier map of the city?
I don't trust Verin Sedai,
even if Lan does.
I'll follow Tomas.
No. We have our task.
There's three of us.
I don't want us separated if
there's a Forsaken in the city.
[Maksim] Two to one.
I'm more concerned
about Liandrin.
Where'd she go?
[door closes]
[indistinct chatter]
♪ ♪
[butler] Just, uh,
c-come in here.
Aes Sedai, it is my honor
to welcome you
to House Damodred.
♪ ♪
I don't know what you think
you'll gain from this.
Hopefully,
everything we've lost.
Leave.
I have nothing to say to you.
I have a question for you.
And I hope someday
you'll forgive me for asking it.
After you were stilled
by Ishamael,
has there been a time...
...in all these months
when you thought about
ending it?
Killing myself?
I read the Tower records.
There have only been
two women in history
who were cut off who didn't.
- Most did it within the year.
- No, I didn't.
Not for one second.
Because I know that
protecting Rand, guiding him,
that is the only thing
that matters.
More than me, more than you.
More than anything.
That's what I thought.
And this whole thing
you're doing with Siuan,
it puts all of it--
the Last Battle,
the fate of the world--
in jeopardy.
What isn't she telling me?
You have to trust someone
at some point, Moiraine.
You can't do this by yourself.
You can't.
And if it's not
going to be me...
...then I thought
it might at least be her.
[Siuan] You say
you've been careful.
How many times
have you channeled?
[Rand] Not many.
Not deliberately.
You will continue to channel,
as sure as roe makes fish.
You can't help it.
And if you don't learn
to control it,
you won't live long enough
to go mad.
What kind of a choice is that?
Dying or going mad
and killing everyone I love?
What if I'm tired
of being a spoke in the Wheel?
You're not a spoke, boy.
[scoffs]
You are the water
that turns the Wheel itself
or dashes it to pieces.
Do you know what Tower law says
the Amyrlin must do
if she finds the Dragon Reborn?
Gentle him?
Gentle him? No.
How do you fight the Dark One
without the One Power?
Some of my Red daughters would
want that, I suppose, but...
we are meant to cage you.
Keep you shielded,
channeling only
when we want, what we want.
And when we go
to fight the Last Battle,
you will be the greatest weapon
in our arsenal.
But not our general.
This is not a conversation.
You already made your decision.
You made it
before you ever met me.
I won't live in your cage.
[grunts]
Six months you've known
what you are, and...
you've learned nothing.
Six months!
Huh? She taught you nothing.
A single Aes Sedai can
handle you like baitfish.
[sighs]
[panting]
We would've been so much
better off if you were a girl.
[chants]
[Mulaen] Good. Quite strong.
The wave almost reached us.
Renna, what have you
named your damane?
I let her keep her name. Egwene.
Let's see what
this Egwene can do.
You saw her Light, didn't you?
You will be brighter than her.
You will be bright enough
that every sul'dam in Falme
will see you shine...
...and know that you are mine.
♪ ♪
This weave is simple.
An explosion of air.
But it shows us
the limits of your power.
[grunts softly]
Don't worry.
I don't need anything
from you for this.
[grunting]
Good, Egwene.
This is very good.
[exhales]
Egwene?
[chants]
[screaming]
- [low rumble]
- [panicked chatter]
- [yelps]
- [bleating]
- [laughs softly]
- [panting]
[laughter]
Look at his nose.
[child] His hair.
[dog barking]
[grunts] Wisdom al'Maera?
Nynaeve.
[laughs]
It is you. How did you...
Where's Perrin? Is he all right?
Escaped, thank the Light.
Elayne Trakand?
- Daughter-Heir of Andor.
- [Nynaeve] Get up.
Don't encourage her.
I am Loial, son of Arent,
son of Halan.
Your name sings in his ears.
Now get up.
We don't have much time.
Have you seen Egwene, builder?
It is monstrous.
They are holding her
like an animal
in a place called the kennels.
- Where is it?
- The old prison,
outside the palace.
We need to get there, now.
There is no way in.
Only the sul'dam
are allowed within
a hundred feet of it.
The Deathwatch stop anyone
- who is not a sul'dam.
- [guard] Check there!
[Elayne] Thank you, builder.
Go now before
anyone sees us talking.
We'll get you out, too.
I swear it.
So, we have everything we need.
♪ ♪
[Mat] So, you're just
gonna walk in here
and not say anything
and just whittle?
All right, fine.
Do you ever have
trouble sleeping?
Sorry?
I do.
I lie there thinking about
all the people in the world,
all of them hurting.
Whole universes collapsing
from a shouted word.
The stab of a dagger.
So much pain.
Is this a sex thing
or a murder thing?
'Cause either way, I'd prefer
you'd skip the talking.
[laughs softly]
Neither, actually.
I have a gift for you.
Humanity's forgotten
so much since my time,
but not all of it
was technology.
This tea shows you things.
Lets you glimpse
your past lives.
All the people you used to be.
A thousand yous.
And through all of that,
the real one.
Your soul.
15 minutes,
then pour a cup for yourself.
Only one.
And what makes you think
I'll take anything
that you give me?
I think you've always wanted
to know who you really are, Mat.
This will show you.
The first time I took this
was the first time
I ever slept through the night.
15 minutes, no more.
[door closes]
[inhales]
[wind gusting]
[birds squawking]
There's someone in the sand.
A woman.
You see well for a wetlander.
Most of you don't notice
what's right beneath your feet.
Take me to Jolien.
♪ ♪
Her wounds were too deep.
An infection took hold.
This spot felt more like home.
Life is a dream
from which we all must wake
before we can dream again.
[Hopper growls softly]
What are you doing?
♪ ♪
[shouts]
[barking]
- Hey.
- Don't.
[exhales]
[grunting]
- [Hopper barks]
- [grunts]
[Hopper growls]
[sniffles]
[panting]
[Hopper continues barking]
[liquid pouring]
[grunts softly]
[belches, exhales]
[grunts]
[blows raspberry]
What a load of shit.
- Mm-mm.
- [low rumble]
[shushing]
♪ ♪
[indistinct whispering]
Damn prick.
Mum?
Damn prick like him.
- [echoes] Like him!
- Mum!
[echoing whispers]
- [Mat] No!
- [Natti] You've always
been rotten.
[gasping]
[Natti] Like him.
[screaming]
Just like her. So like him.
Stop. Stop!
Like him.
- Stop! Stop. Stop. Stop.
- Like him.
Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop!
Stop. Stop!
Stop. Stop. Stop.
Stop. Stop.
Stop.
Just like him.
[screaming]
[door opens]
[Siuan] Let them through.
Release him, Siuan.
Now.
No.
We tried our way, Moiraine.
And we nearly lost everything.
The Tower's laws
have stood for 3,000 years.
It's time we obeyed them.
- This is not what we agreed to.
- The Reds will gentle him.
- Not while I hold the Seat.
- [Moiraine] The Tower is filled
with your enemies.
You're this sure of your power?
We each had a task, Siuan.
I was to find the Dragon Reborn.
You were to get the Tower ready
to support him.
Or have you forgotten that day?
Of course I have not forgotten.
But you were
supposed to be with him,
ready to shield him
if he starts to go mad.
Yet here you are, stilled.
You can't control him.
You can't guide him.
Can you imagine, Moiraine,
if one of the Forsaken
got their hands on him?
He's no more ready now than
he was before you found him.
You left the fate of the world
to chance...
...for your pride.
Tomorrow,
when Queen Galldrian returns,
we shall announce him as Dragon
here in Cairhien...
...with 14 Sisters
by our side to show
he is under our control.
Prepare him for what is to come.
What is happening to me?
You've been shielded
from the One Power.
Um...
- it feels...
- As if you've lost
everything you ever were
and everything
you could possibly be.
Don't worry, it's temporary.
She has to channel
to keep the shield in place,
but when it drops,
you'll feel yourself again.
Siuan said you were leaving.
Where were you going?
Falme.
Egwene is there.
Ishamael has her.
Lanfear showed you this
in the dream world?
I know they want me to go there.
But why Falme, of all places?
The Dragon is supposed
to proclaim himself there.
"Bannered 'cross the sky
in fire."
They want everyone
to know who I am
before they try to kill me.
[exhales]
If they need me in Falme,
then they certainly don't
want me being held prisoner
by the Amyrlin Seat.
If you're waiting for Moiraine,
I'm afraid...
I'm not here for Moiraine Sedai.
And I'm tired of waiting.
Leave us, Mother.
Please.
[Anvaere] We have a guest.
This is royal business.
Go upstairs, now.
[door opens]
- [Liandrin] I remember her
at that age.
- [door closes]
You have the look of her,
you know.
Why are you here, Aes Sedai?
To deliver an order.
What does our master ask of me?
Remove her from the board.
She is my aunt.
Exactly. Even she will be
unprepared for this.
Do it today.
She's being held in a cell
in the palace.
Oh. And if your mother
suspects anything...
...take care of her, too.
[muttering]
[Ishamael] Hush.
Hush now.
Hush.
I don't...
Just like him.
You see it now, don't you?
We keep living these lives.
Trying again and again.
But for what?
The Wheel turns and people hurt.
It's a simple fact.
And even with
the freedom of death,
we just come back,
again and again.
And all I want...
...is just to close my eyes
one day
and never have
to open them again.
[gasps]
How?
[wind gusting]
You didn't even make it
out of the city.
[Rand] I need your help.
I'm in a cell in the Sun Palace.
The Amyrlin's holding me.
I know.
Can you get me out?
Hmm.
Isn't Moiraine with you?
Surely she could do something.
Maybe she will.
Maybe I won't need you.
Oh, I do like it
when you try to manipulate me.
Can you get me out or not,
Lanfear?
[people screaming]
♪ ♪
[neighing]
[footsteps approaching]
Through there.
What did he say?
Does the Daughter of the Night
walk in our world?
Forsaken. [scoffs]
Dragon Reborn.
I miss the farm, Alanna.
I even miss your cousins.
Come now.
Did you expect
we would fight the Last Battle
against an army of kittens?
[door closes]
I would offer you a match, but..
stones is a gentleman's game.
Tell your master
that I'm still waiting
for her to keep her promise.
Or you can just run me through
with your blade now,
save her the trouble. [chuckles]
[Lan] I can do better than that.
You can see male weaves.
What do you see
when you look at Moiraine?
A desperate, lonely woman
who has given her life
to a cause...
[chuckling] ...beyond
her understanding.
A half a year in an asylum,
and you're a madman still.
Madness is expecting
a straight answer
from the man
you helped lock away.
There are weaves on her.
From a man.
Thousands of strands
pulled together, held in place,
but nothing
being channeled into them.
How is that possible?
I don't know, it's just like...
[people screaming in distance]
There's a fire.
In the Foregate.
The key.
You think I've forgotten what
you did to Kerene and Stepin?
You will get this key
when they take you back
to the White Tower.
There are two Brown Sisters
that are desperate
to study a man who can channel.
Go.
[people screaming]
3,000 years pass
and I'm back to this.
[men screaming]
[screaming]
Hmm.
[wind gusting]
[laughter]
So, you're all just fine now?
Friends again?
I fulfilled my toh to Jolien
and restored my ji.
[Perrin] Toh is...
"obligation"?
Like what you said you owe me?
It is dishonorable to remind me.
But yes.
I was defending myself
when Jolien took the sword
to her back that killed her.
It's my fault she died.
That was my toh.
This ring, it means you're owned
by a wetlander woman, yes?
In a way.
And you can lie
with no one else?
Bain will be disappointed.
Chiad will not care.
♪ ♪
This is all... water... How?
Falme.
What do you think it'll do
when we try to put it on?
I don't know,
but I hope it hurts.
She's coming.
Fits well, don't you think?
- [gasps]
- [grunts]
[panting]
- [door opens]
- [metal clacking]
[door closes]
Pull up your sleeves.
[exhales]
I...
realized why you fight me.
It's because no one's told you
why we are here.
The Seanchan Empress
has one charge,
and one alone.
To unite every person
on this planet under the Light.
The Last Battle is coming.
And we will only
be able to fight it
if we stand together, all of us.
Including you and me.
[laughs softly]
Renna.
Yes, Egwene?
I will kill you.
[door closes]
[Barthanes] You're sure
my aunt's alone?
As you asked, my lord.
And a sedative in her tea.
She should be asleep already.
[softly] Good.
Would you like me
to open it, Your Grace?
[gasps]
I didn't think you would do it.
Mother.
No. No!
No! No.
Why? In Light's name, why?
[Barthanes] I did it for us.
I did it for you, Mother.
For our family name.
Why do you think
that we've risen
so far so fast, Mother?
I am to be king.
And you would
throw it all away for what?
For-for her?
Mother, Moiraine
doesn't care about you.
She trust no one.
She cares about no one.
She...
She will leave this place,
and she will not give us
a second thought.
I know.
But there are two things
my sister understands
better than anyone.
The difference
between right and wrong,
and how much harder it is
sometimes to do what is right.
[sniffling] Mother.
Mother, please.
You can't tell the queen.
You can't tell anybody.
I already have.
[crying] Mother.
Mother. Mother!
No! Mother! Mother!
The city's burning.
The Amyrlin requires your
strength to protect Cairhien.
I've been told to watch the boy.
This is an order, Leane Sedai.
I'll take his shield.
Don't let her get close to you.
[Moiraine] You are very clever
with your words, Sister.
The Dragon Reborn.
I'd say you've spent long enough
in Cairhien, wouldn't you?
[Verin] There's a Waygate
hidden in the city.
[Moiraine] That's just a rumor.
- With a grain of truth.
- An Ogier Stedding
once stood
in the inner city center.
Cairhien families built
right over it.
Here.
[people screaming]
Where will you take him?
Falme. Toman Head.
"Above Toman's Head
shall he proclaim himself
bannered 'cross the sky
in fire."
You plan to have him declare
himself the Dragon Reborn.
[distant shouting]
The Wheel weaves.
Good work. We'll take him
from here to the Waygate.
Just make sure
that we're not followed.
You're not alone
in this any longer, Sister.
But you need to hurry.
This city is not safe.
I hope you're worth this, boy.
Light be with you.
Let's go.
[people screaming]
Link with me.
[thunder crashes]
[screaming continues]
♪ ♪
I'm here, Mother.
Who's shielding the boy?
Verin Sedai.
You... you sent her.
Lead your Sisters
and heal the injured.
That boy must not
leave the city.
[exhales]
It should be somewhere.
[Lan] There.
You'll have to channel into it.
Split it open with sheer force
if you have to.
[Lan] No, he won't.
You're going to open it.
Just do it.
Look at Moiraine.
With the Source.
- Lan.
- Not just your eyes.
What do you see?
[Moiraine] Don't.
It looks like a knot
tied together.
That's im...
It's impossible.
There's a story
from the Age of Legends
about the Foresaken's powers--
a skill that's been lost
for thousands of years--
to tie off weaves
and leave them in place.
It never made sense to me,
Moiraine.
What you're feeling?
Ishamael didn't still you.
Not even a Forsaken
could do that alone.
It is a shield
that he's tied off,
which means...
- It can be removed.
- [Lan] Yes.
What do I need to do?
You don't have the skill
to untie this knot.
You'll have to cut it.
I trust you.
Go on.
Cut through it.
[gasps]
I feel it.
[exhales] I feel it.
[exhales]
Thank you.
[softly] Thank you.
I am sorry it took me
so long to do my duty.
[chuckles]
[gasps]
[sighs]
Stop! No!
[grunts]
Close the Waygate, Moiraine.
Now.
You lied to me
about being stilled.
No.
I cannot.
I've been more truthful
with you than anyone else.
We failed, Moiraine.
At the Eye of the World,
you failed.
The stakes are too high
to fail again.
Close the Waygate.
No.
I don't want to force you.
You swore to obey me
on the Oath Rod.
An unbreakable oath,
bound by the One Power.
Siuan...
Close it.
[softly] Siuan...
Moiraine Damodred...
No, if you have ever loved me,
don't do this.
...I command you...
...to close the Waygate.
[moaning]
♪ ♪
[exhales]
[gasps, pants]
[panting]
[gasps]
[Moiraine] Lanfear.
[Lanfear laughs]
[Moiraine] She's too strong,
Siuan. Don't.
[exhales]
- No.
- [Lanfear] I told you
the next time I saw you two
together, I'd kill her.
[Rand] You're not
going to touch her.
Not if you want my help.
[grunts softly]
[Lanfear] Every day
you grow more like Lews.
[exhales]
Lucky for you, a broken Amyrlin
is more useful to me
than a dead one.
♪ ♪
[both laugh]
[Siuan] Moiraine, please.
[laughs softly]
[Lan] Moiraine, please.
♪ ♪